Cloud Events Example (#20)
kyma-incubator/examples: cloud-events-e2e-scenario/README.md

> # Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Receive Events from an external solution
```

Author: @bszwarc We should emphasize that it's [Cloud Events](https://cloudevents.io/)

Author: ```suggestion
# Receive Cloud Events from an external solution
```

> This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. To make it easier for the developers, this scenario uses a  **local Kyma installation**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. To make things easier, this scenario uses a  **local Kyma installation**.
```

This scenario uses a mocked external solution. You can mock the sending of Events using an HTTP client. 
You can also use other mocked or real solutions.

> 

Reviewer: Remove the empty lines.

The runtime flow involves following steps:

1. The external solution sends an `order.created` Event.
2. The Event is accepted by Kyma.

> * The Event triggers the deployed lambda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The Event triggers the deployed lambda.
```

> * The lambda prints out CE context attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The lambda prints out CE context attributes.
```

> # Set up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

### Install Kyma locally

Use these [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md) to install and configure Kyma locally.

### Create a Namespace

> Create a Namespace called `workshop`. You can choose a different name, but remember to use it when calling the commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Namespace called `workshop`. You can choose a different name, but remember to use it in the commands.
```

### Create Application

1. In the Kyma Console, go to **Integration** > **Application** > **Create Application**.
2. Enter the Application name: sample-external-solution. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

  ```bash
  ./one-click-integration.sh -u <paste URL here>
  ```

 This script generates a `generated.pem` file. It contains the signed certificate and key that you will use for subsequent communications.

  > **NOTE** The token expires quickly, so use it right away or generate a new one.

### Mock an external solution

Use any HTTP client, such as curl or postman, to send a request from the mocked external solution to Kyma.

### Register Events

1. Register Events via the metadata API using [`register-events.json`](./register-events.json):

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

To verify the Event flow, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**. You can see the registered Events.

> ## Bind Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bind Application
```

1. Navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**
2. Create a binding with the `workshop` Namespace.

### Add Events and APIs to the Namespace

1. Select the `workshop` Namespace and go to **Service Management** > **Catalog**.
2. Click **Services** to see the registered Events.

> 

Reviewer: Remove this line

3. Click on the Event entry to reveal details. 
4. Click **Add once** button to add Events to your Namespace.
5. Go to **Service Instances** > **Services** tab to see if the Events are available.

### Create lambda

* Create the lambda definition in lambda ui using [lambda.js](./lambda.js) in the workshop namespace
2. Click **Select Function trigger** button to select an Event trigger, then choose **order.created**.

## Runtime

### Publish the Event

Use the certificate generated by the `./one-click-integration.sh` script to send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client, such as curl, httpie, or postman. You can also use CloudEvents SDK. For details, see [this example](./example.go)

## Verification

To check if the lambda function was triggered properly, inspect the Pod logs in the `workshop` Namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n work logs lambdaname-xxx-xxxx -c lambdaname -f
    ```

> # Tracing

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Traces are available under `https://jaeger.kyma.local/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also find traces under `https://jaeger.kyma.local/`.
```

# Description

> This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. For enabling developers, this scenario is targeted for a **local Kyma installation**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. To make it easier for the developers, this scenario uses a  **local Kyma installation**.
```

> The external solution provides events which is mocked in this example scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario uses a mocked external solution. You can mock the sending of Events using an HTTP client. 
You can also use other mocked or real solutions.
```

> * Sending of events is mocked by using a HTTP Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Combined with the previous one.

> You can use any other real solutions or mocks that you want to try.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Combined with the previous one.

The runtime flow involves following steps:

> * External solution sends an `order.created` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The external solution sends an `order.created` Event.
```

> * The event is accepted by Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The Event is accepted by Kyma.
```

> * Event triggers the deployed lambda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Event triggers the deployed lambda.
```

> * Lambda prints the CE context attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The lambda prints out CE context attributes.
```

# Set up

> ## Start Kyma locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install Kyma locally
```

> * Refer these [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use these [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md) to install and configure Kyma locally.
```

> ## Create Kyma namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a Namespace
```

> * Throughout this workshop we use `workshop` namespace so please create it first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Namespace called `workshop`. You can choose a different name, but remember to use it when calling the commands.
```

> * If you desire to use a different namespace then change each `workshop` here with your desired namespace name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## Create Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create Application
```

> * Create an application at `Integration` --> `Application` --> `Create Application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Kyma Console, go to **Integration** > **Application** > **Create Application**.
```

> * Name it `sample-external-solution`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the Application name: sample-external-solution. 
```

> ## Establish secure connection between external solution and Kyma

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Establish secure connection 
```

> We will set up the secure connectivity between the mock external solution and the Kyma application `sample-external-solution`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [connector service](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/02-02-connector-service.md) to establish a secure connection between the mocked external solution and your application.
```

> Here we will use the [connector service](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/02-02-connector-service.md) to secure the communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Added to the previous line.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps connect an external solution to Kyma:
```

> * Clone this [repository](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone [this repository](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script).
```

> * Copy the token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We can remove this and just proceed to the next steps.

>   * Navigate to the `Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the Kyma Console, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**.
```

>   * `Connect Application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Connect Application**.
```

>   * Copy the token to the clipboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the token.
```

> * Use the one-click-generation [helper script](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script) to generate the certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Use the one-click-generation [helper script](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script) to generate the certificate:
```

  ```bash
  ./one-click-integration.sh -u <paste URL here>
  ```

>   This will generate a `generated.pem` file. This contains the signed certificate and key that we will use for subsequent communications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This script generates a `generated.pem` file. It contains the signed certificate and key that you will use for subsequent communications.
```

>   > **NOTE** The token is short-lived. So either hurry up or regenerate the token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **NOTE** The token expires quickly, so use it right away or generate a new one.
```

>   ```bash

Reviewer: What does this part do?

Author: @bszwarc Capture the node port to use it in the following steps

Author: @bszwarc You're right, this will not be used here! will remove it.

  export NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get svc -n kyma-system application-connector-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].nodePort}')
  ```

> ## Mock External solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mock an external solution
```

> * Calls from external solution to kyma

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use any HTTP client, such as curl or postman, to send a request from the mocked external solution to Kyma.
```

>   * Use any http client e.g curl, httpie, postman etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Combined with the previous one.

> ## Register Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Register Events
```

> * Register events via the metadata api using [register-events.json](./register-events.json)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register Events via the metadata API using [`register-events.json`](./register-events.json):
```

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

> * Verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   * Navigate to Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the Event flow, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**. You can see the registered Events.
```

>   * You should see the registered events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Bind Application

> * Navigate to Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**
```

> * Create a binding with the Kyma namespace `workshop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a binding with the `workshop` Namespace.
```

> ## Add events and APIs to the Kyma Namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Events and APIs to the Namespace
```

> * Navigate to Service Catalog for Kyma namespace `workshop`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the `workshop` Namespace and go to **Service Management** > **Catalog**.
```

> * Click on `Services`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Services** to see the registered Events.
```

> * You should see the registered events available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Combined with the previous one.

> * Click on the details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the Event entry to reveal details. 
```

> * Add to your namespace by clicking the `Add once` button"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Add once** button to add Events to your Namespace.
```

> * Check under `Service Instances` --> `Services` tab if it appears

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Go to **Service Instances** > **Services** tab to see if the Events are available.
```

> ## Create Lambda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create lambda
```

> * Create the lambda definition in lambda ui using [lambda.js](./lambda.js) in the workshop namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the lambda definition in lambda UI using [lambda.js](./lambda.js).
```

Author: @bszwarc why deleting the namespace?

Reviewer: I assumed the user knows that he is doing everything using this namespace. But it may stay to make it more explicit.

> * Press `Select Function trigger` button to create an event trigger, then choose `order.created`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Select Function trigger** button to select an Event trigger, then choose **order.created**.
```

> # Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Runtime
```

> ## Publish the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publish the Event
```

> * Using the generated certificate from the `./one-click-integration.sh`, send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client e.g curl, httpie, postman etc. or a CloudEvents SDK, check this example in Go [example.go](./example.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the certificate generated by the `./one-click-integration.sh` script to send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client, such as curl, httpie, or postman. You can also use CloudEvents SDK. For details, see [this example](./example.go)
```

> # Verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verification
```

> * **Lambda was triggered**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   * Inspect the pod logs for lambda in `workshop` namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if the lambda function was triggered properly, inspect the Pod logs in the `workshop` Namespace:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl -n work logs lambdaname-xxx-xxxx -c lambdaname -f
    ```

# Tracing

> * Traces are available under <https://jaeger.kyma.local/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traces are available under `https://jaeger.kyma.local/`.
```

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

* Verify
  * Navigate to Administration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution
  * You should see the registered events.

## Bind Application

* Navigate to Administration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution
* Create a binding with the Kyma namespace `workshop`.

## Add events and APIs to the Kyma Namespace

* Navigate to Service Catalog for Kyma namespace `workshop`

* You should see the registered events available.
* Click on the details
* Add to your namespace
* Check under `Service Instances` if it appears

## Create Lambda

* Create the lambda definition in `lambda ui` using [lambda.js](./lambda.js)
  * Add label `app:<name-of-the-lambda>`
* Select function trigger as event trigger, then choose `order.created`

# Runtime

## Publish the event

```go
# using httpie

> package main

Reviewer 2: This one uses client cert and key
```
package main

import (
	"context"
	"crypto/tls"
	"crypto/x509"
	"io/ioutil"
	"log"
	"net/http"
	"time"

	cloudevents "github.com/cloudevents/sdk-go"
	"github.com/google/uuid"
)

func main() {
	event := cloudevents.NewEvent()
	event.Context = cloudevents.EventContextV03{}.AsV03()
	event.SetID(uuid.New().String())
	event.SetType("order.created")
	event.SetSource("external-application")
	event.SetTime(time.Now())
	event.SetExtension("eventtypeversion", "v1")
	event.SetDataContentType("application/json")
	event.SetData(23)

	// Add path to client certificate and key
	cert, err := tls.LoadX509KeyPair("generated.crt", "generated.key")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to load cert", err)
	}
	clientCACert, err := ioutil.ReadFile("generated.crt")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal("Unable to open cert", err)
	}

	clientCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
	clientCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(clientCACert)

	tlsConfig := &tls.Config{
		Certificates:       []tls.Certificate{cert},
		RootCAs:            clientCertPool,
		InsecureSkipVerify: true,
	}

	tlsConfig.BuildNameToCertificate()

	client := &http.Client{
		Transport: &http.Transport{TLSClientConfig: tlsConfig},
	}
	t, err := cloudevents.NewHTTPTransport(
		cloudevents.WithTarget("https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v2/events"),
		cloudevents.WithStructuredEncoding())

	t.Client = client
	c, err := cloudevents.NewClient(t)
	if err != nil {
		panic("unable to create cloudevent client: " + err.Error())
	}
	_, err = c.Send(context.Background(), event)
	if err != nil {
		panic("failed to send cloudevent: " + err.Error())
	}
}
```

# Description

This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. For enabling developers, this scenario is targeted for a **local Kyma installation**.

The external solution provides events which is mocked in this example scenario.

* Sending of events is mocked by using a HTTP Client.

You can use any other real solutions or mocks that you want to try.

The runtime flow involves following steps:

* External solution sends an `order.created` event.
* The event is accepted by Kyma.
* Event triggers the deployed lambda.
* Lambda prints the CE context attributes

# Set up

## Start Kyma locally

> * Refer these [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/docs/030-inst-local-installation-from-release.md)

Reviewer 3: Link does not exist

Reviewer 3: Maybe use the CLI tool for this: `kyma provision minikube` and `kyma install -r master`

Author: I will use https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md

## Create Kyma namespace

> * Throughout this workshop we use `workshop` namespace so please create it first.

Reviewer 3: If this document is aimed at developers, why not simply add a command to create the namespace?

Author: Maybe because it can be created from the UI as well

Reviewer 3: Makes sense. Rest of readme uses UI too.

* If you desire to use a different namespace then change each `workshop` here with your desired namespace name.

## Create Application

> * Under `Integration`, create Application.

Reviewer 3: According to your style, this should be easier to read: `Integration --> Application --> Create Application`. It helps navigation through the UI.

Proposal: "Create an application at Integration --> Application --> Create Application"

* Name it `sample-external-solution`.

## Establish secure connection between external solution and Kyma

We will set up the secure connectivity between the mock external solution and the Kyma application `sample-external-solution`.

> Here we will use the [connector service](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/docs/010-architecture-connector-service.md) to secure the communication.

Reviewer 3: Cannot find document. 404

Author: will fix and use 
https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/02-02-connector-service.md

* Clone this [repository](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script).

* Copy the token
  * Navigate to the `Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution`
  * `Connect Application`
  * Copy the token to the clipboard
  
* Use the one-click-generation [helper script](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script) to generate the certificate

  ```bash

>   ./one-click-integration.sh -u <paste token here>

Reviewer 3: Better use `<paste URL>`.I thought I need to paste the token from the URL here. But actually the URL is required.

  ```

  This will generate a `generated.pem` file. This contains the signed certificate and key that we will use for subsequent communications.

>   > **NOTE** The token is short-lived. So either hurry up or regenrate the token

Reviewer 3: regenrate => regenerate

  ```bash
  export NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get svc -n kyma-system application-connector-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].nodePort}')
  ```

## Mock External solution

* Calls from external solution to kyma
  * Use any http client e.g curl, httpie, postman etc.

## Register Events

* Register events via the metadata api using [register-events.json](./register-events.json)

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

* Verify

>   * Navigate to Administration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution

Reviewer 3: Should be ``Integration --> Application --> sample-external-solution`

  * You should see the registered events.

## Bind Application

> * Navigate to Administration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution

Reviewer 3: Same here

* Create a binding with the Kyma namespace `workshop`.

## Add events and APIs to the Kyma Namespace

* Navigate to Service Catalog for Kyma namespace `workshop`

> * You should see the registered events available.

Reviewer 3: One needs to switch to `Services` tab first.

* Click on the details

> * Add to your namespace

Reviewer 3: You can be more detailed here. E.g. "Add it to your namespace by pressing the `Add once` button".

> * Check under `Service Instances` if it appears

Reviewer 3: in the `Services` tab

## Create Lambda

> * Create the lambda definition in `lambda ui` using [lambda.js](./lambda.js)

Reviewer 3: I understand that you don't want to tell the user how he has to use the UI to create a lambda or assume the user knows it. However, for a user who doesn't know how to do so, we should at least link to some document/example which explains how to do that.

Maybe change the sentence to `* Create the lambda definition in `lambda ui` using [lambda.js](./lambda.js) in the workshop namespace`

Reviewer 3: Or at least tell the user where to do so.

>   * Add label `app:<name-of-the-lambda>`

Reviewer 3: The label get's automatically created in the UI. It is `app=<name-of-the-lambda>`

> * Select function trigger as event trigger, then choose `order.created`

Reviewer 3: Press `Select Function trigger` button to create an event trigger, then choose `order.created`

# Runtime

## Publish the event

```go
package main

> 

Reviewer 3: Can you add some log messages to the code ? When I ran it, I got a 404 and nothing else as output.
At least the URL should be printed to stdout.

    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

* Verify
  * Navigate to Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution
  * You should see the registered events.

## Bind Application

* Navigate to Integration --> Applications --> sample-external-solution
* Create a binding with the Kyma namespace `workshop`.

## Add events and APIs to the Kyma Namespace

* Navigate to Service Catalog for Kyma namespace `workshop`

* You should see the registered events available.
* Click on the details
* Add to your namespace
* Check under `Service Instances` if it appears

## Create Lambda

* Create the lambda definition in `lambda ui` using [lambda.js](./lambda.js)
  * Add label `app:<name-of-the-lambda>`
* Select function trigger as event trigger, then choose `order.created`

# Runtime

## Publish the event

* Using the generated certificate from the `./one-click-integration.sh`, send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client e.g curl, httpie, postman etc. or a CloudEvents SDK 

```go
# Go Example
package main

> import (

Reviewer 3: The code in  the *.go file should be enough. No need to have it in the Readme too.
